well howdy there Internet people let's
bow again so tonight we're going to talk
about native schools the schools we have
today and something we may should be
doing as parents or elders in the
community whatever it is Native American
Heritage Month and since I'm going to be
talking a little about schools I figure
I should bring this up that's nicely in
perhaps an overdramatic way the schools
that were imposed on the natives they
were there were something else there's
something else they were designed to
crush that spirit it's really what they
were there for they couldn't speak their
native tongue had to cut their hair
could use a real name's it was horrible
it was horrible and the conditions were
appalling really were those schools
probably had the longest lasting impact
of any of the forms of ethnic cleansing
that we tried and you know when these
facilities get repurposed today it's not
uncommon for them to find random
children buried unmarked horrible places
and they were designed to kill the
Indian and leave the man but they were
so brutal sometimes I want to kill them
both all in the pursuit of creating an
American whatever that is
now the schools we send our kids to
today they're not that brutal they're
not that severe but that desire to
create assimilation uniformity it's
still there and this has nothing to do
with the teachers its way the schools
are designed it breeds uniformity and it
doesn't matter if you have one of those
great teachers the truly encourages
curiosity on every level that teacher is
competing with every other child in that
classroom there's got to try to stifle
it
they don't want extra questions we got
to get this done so we can go do
whatever it's their peer group and the
way our schools are set up that's stifle
that curiosity and that curiosity is
critical for education for real
education you know we have kind of a
modified Prussian system it's not quite
a factory school setting the curriculums
are developed by decentralized school
districts in most cases but they have
standard staff to meet and those
teachers who are overworked have too
many kids in the class all of that
they have to focus on making sure that
they can pass those tests the end result
of that is a bunch of kids learning what
to think or rather than how to and you
know we expect so much from these
teachers and then we set all of the
rules and all of the systems in
opposition to all it's kind of that
stuff so that's where we come in as
parents as community members whatever we
always have to be ready to supplement
what the state provides the other day my
five-year-old was watching the Magic
School Bus rides again and I knew
something was up when he came up to me
because he was talking about this cave
that we had gone to a few weeks ago and
then all of a sudden pops out he wants
to know what kind of rocks are best to
find fossils I've said they're only
thanks miss Frizzle you know now I'm
gonna try to access parts of my brain I
haven't used since the 6th grade and
what I want to say is this is science
question you need go talk to your mom
but I can't do that because we want to
encourage that curiosity so
we always need to have those hip pocket
classes ready whether it's a skill
general information an idea a life
lesson whatever that you want to pass on
you can even have your own lesson plan
and have that ready for when the
opportunity arises you know we have that
great resource how how I dealt with that
question we have YouTube so I wound up
sitting there watching 40 minutes of
stuff on fossils that I still don't
remember but he will and I know as busy
as we all are the the first reaction
just to go over there type it in for him
let him watch it pull it out here's
here's some stuff on fossils there you
know where you should look for and walk
away and go about what we were doing see
the problem is if we do that we become
just another kid in that classroom the
one thing that I have learned about
children is you can't tell them anything
you have a show
if your child asks you a question and
you don't know the answer go to YouTube
smart kids I'll put that together so if
you type it into YouTube kid knows you
don't know and when you walk away what
are you telling him whatever he was
curious about it's not important you
don't need to know it the schools they
kill that individuality
they really do it's the way they're
designed there's not much that it can be
done in the system because the system
has to cater to the middle
they have to create that uniformity for
them to be effective
we have to create that curiosity so they
can take that base knowledge that
they're getting to the next level
because otherwise we're going to end up
with a bunch of worker drones they can't
think for themselves and you can't blame
the teachers for this can't and maybe
the first reaction but you put 30 kids
in a row 20 kids in a row and you tell
them to think for themselves you try to
impart that lesson guarantee you you're
never going to oppose a raise for
teachers again anyway it's just a
thought y'all have a good night